WI #540: Ensure all user-defined Tags are encapsulated within the Tags column (#691)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/tags.md

The Tags column adheres to the following requirements:

* Tags MUST be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) when the provider supports setting user or provider-defined tags.

> * Tags MUST contain all user-defined and provider-defined tags.

Reviewer: Do we need to clarify what we mean by "tags"? Is it clear that "labels" and "categories" are "tags"? 🤔

Reviewer 2: Labels are explicitly called out as being synonymous in the opening paragraph of the Tags column definition.
> Tags may also be referred to by providers using other terms such as labels.

Reviewer 3: Resolving in preparation for the member's vote. Reopen if needed though.

* Tags MUST only contain finalized tags.

> * Tags MUST be in [KeyValueFormat](#key-valueformat).

Reviewer 4: nit: If there's still time for suggestions on this, I think referring to 'The Tags column' as we had initially (even if it might be stylistically inconsistent with other places) is better because it's clear when we're referring to the column vs. Tags the thing (given here it's the first word of the sentence and it's capitalized)

> * A Tag key with a non-null value for a given resource SHOULD be included in the tags column.
> * A Tag key with a null value for a given resource MAY be included in the tags column depending on the provider's tag finalization process.
> * A Tag key that does *not* support a corresponding value, MUST have a corresponding true (boolean) value set.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* A tag key with a non-null value for a given resource SHOULD be included in the tags column.
* A tag key with a null value for a given resource MAY be included in the tags column depending on the provider's tag finalization process.
* A tag key that does *not* support a corresponding value, MUST have a corresponding true (boolean) value set.
```
Fixing casing for consistency. We use lowercase tag everywhere else.

> * Providers MUST NOT alter Tag values unless applying true (boolean) to valueless tags

Reviewer: I don't love the MUST NOT mixed with an exception. Can we split these into 2 separate requirements?
```suggestion
* Providers MUST NOT alter Tag values when a key/value pair is specified by the user (even if the value is empty).
* Providers MUST set the Tag value to a Boolean `true` value when the Tag is a single string and does not support a key and a value.
```

Reviewer 3: This suggestion isn't correct.  We're giving guidance that no value should ever be altered except in the case that a tag is valueless in nature, and so the provider MUST transform this valueless tag in to a key/value tag with `true` (boolean) as the default value.

Reviewer 2: I find that examples are helpful to me. These "valueless" tags would be cases like Jira labels where they are present, but cannot hold a value.

Reviewer 3: Resolving in preparation for the member's vote. Reopen if needed though.

> * Providers MUST NOT alter Tag values unless applying true (boolean) to valueless tags

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Providers MUST NOT alter tag values unless applying true (boolean) to valueless tags
```

Fixing casing for consistency. We use lowercase tag everywhere else.

> * If Tag finalization is supported, providers MUST publish tag finalization methods and semantics within their respective documentation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* If tag finalization is supported, providers MUST publish tag finalization methods and semantics within their respective documentation.
```

Fixing casing for consistency. We use lower case tag everywhere else.

* Providers MUST NOT allow reserved tag key prefixes to be used as prefixes for any user-defined tag keys within a prefixless, user-defined tag scheme.  

> * Providers SHOULD publish all provider-specified tag key prefixes within their respective documentation.

Reviewer: I forget... Don't we require defining prefixes in metadata? Can we make this a MUST and switch docs to metadata? 
```suggestion
* Providers MUST publish all provider-specified tag key prefixes within FOCUS metadata.
```

Reviewer 3: We intentionally left this open-ended to not dictate firm guidance beyond the FOCUS spec itself.  If a provider really doesn't (want to) publish this documentation, then it's on them.

Reviewer 3: Resolving in preparation for the member's vote. Reopen if needed though.

> * Providers MUST NOT alter tag values unless applying true (boolean) to valueless tags

Reviewer 5: Missing period.

```suggestion
* Providers MUST NOT alter tag values unless applying true (boolean) to valueless tags.
```

User-defined tags additionally adhere to the following requirements:

> * When a provider has only 1 user-defined tag scheme, the provider MUST NOT include a prefix in Tag keys.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* When a provider has only 1 user-defined tag scheme, the provider MUST NOT include a prefix in tag keys.
```
Fixing casing for consistency. We use lowercase tag everywhere else.

> * When a provider has only 1 user-defined tag scheme, the provider MUST NOT alter any user-defined Tag keys.

Reviewer: What does "alter" mean? Should we be explicit and just call out tag key prefixes? 
```suggestion
* When a provider has only 1 user-defined tag scheme, the provider MUST NOT include a prefix in Tag keys.
```

> * When a provider has 2 or more user-defined tag schemes, the provider MUST prefix all but 1 user-defined tag scheme with a predetermined, provider-specified tag key prefix that is unique to each corresponding user-defined tag scheme.

Reviewer 2: For my clarity, this is saying that 1 tag scheme MUST NOT have a prefix and any additional tag schemes MUST have a prefix. That is, there is no option for a provider to prefix all tag schemes. This makes sense to me, both how it's written and how it's applying to an existing column, but I just wanted to confirm since I haven't been in the conversations.

Reviewer 3: Correct

Reviewer 3: Resolving in preparation for the member's vote. Reopen if needed though.

> * When a provider has 2 or more user-defined tag schemes, the provider MUST alter all but 1 user-defined tag scheme with a predetermined, provider-specified tag key prefix that is unique to each corresponding user-defined tag scheme.

Reviewer: nit: I'd rather be more explicit than "alter".
```suggestion
* When a provider has 2 or more user-defined tag schemes, the provider MUST prefix all but 1 user-defined tag scheme with a predetermined, provider-specified tag key prefix that is unique to each corresponding user-defined tag scheme.
```

* A Tag key with a null value for a given resource MAY be included in the tags column depending on the provider's tag finalization process.
* A Tag key that does *not* support a corresponding value, MUST have a corresponding true (boolean) value set.
* If Tag finalization is supported, providers MUST publish tag finalization methods and semantics within their respective documentation.

> * Providers MUST NOT alter user-defined Tag values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Providers MUST NOT alter Tag values unless applying true (boolean) to valueless tags
```

> * A Tag key with a null value for a given resource MAY be included in the tags column depending on the provider's tag finalization process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Providers MUST NOT alter Tag values.
```

* A Tag key that does *not* support a corresponding value, MUST have a corresponding true (boolean) value set.
* If Tag finalization is supported, providers MUST publish tag finalization methods and semantics within their respective documentation.

> * Providers with two or more user-defined tag schemes MUST ensure that all but one user-defined tag scheme are uniquely identified by a provider-defined prefix, allowing one scheme to remain unprefixed at their discretion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

User-defined Tags additionally adhere to the following requirements:

* When a provider has only 1 user-defined tag scheme, the provider MUST NOT alter any user-defined Tag keys.
* When a provider has 2 or more user-defined tag scheme, the provider MUST alter all but 1 provider-determined tag scheme with unique, provider-defined prefixes.
```

## Provider-Defined vs. User-Defined Tags

> This example illustrates four different tagging scenarios. The first three illustrate when the provider supports both keys and values, while the third is for supporting keys only. The first tag is user-defined and doesn't have a provider prefix. The second and third tags are provider-defined and have prefixes of `scheme2/` & `scheme3/` which are reserved by the provider. The fourth tag has a tag key of `baz` and its value is assigned the boolean value `true` since the tag doesn't support a value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example illustrates various tags produced from multiple user-defined and provider-defined tag schemes.  The first three tags illustrate examples from three different, user-defined tag schemes, and the provider has predetermined that 1 user-defined tag scheme (i.e. `"foo": "bar"`) does not have a prepended prefix, but the two (i.e. `"userDefinedTagScheme2/foo": "bar"`, `"userDefinedTagScheme3/foo": true`) have predetermined and reserved prefixes.  Additionally, the third tag was produced from a valueless, user-defined tag scheme, so the provider provides `true` as its default value.

The last two tags illustrate examples from two different, provider-defined tag schemes, and since all provider-defined tag schemes require a prefix, the provider has prepended prefixes (`providerDefinedTagScheme1/`, `providerDefinedTagScheme2/`) to each tag.
```

```json
    {
        "foo": "bar",

>         "scheme2/foo": "bar",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        "userDefinedTagScheme2/foo": "bar",
        "userDefinedTagScheme3/foo": true,
        "providerDefinedTagScheme1/foo": "bar",
        "providerDefinedTagScheme2/foo": "bar"
```

>         "scheme3/foo": "baz",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## Provider-Defined vs. User-Defined Tags

This example illustrates various tags produced from multiple user-defined and provider-defined tag schemes.  The first three tags illustrate examples from three different, user-defined tag schemes, and the provider has predetermined that 1 user-defined tag scheme (i.e. `"foo": "bar"`) does not have a prepended prefix, but the two (i.e. `"userDefinedTagScheme2/foo": "bar"`, `"userDefinedTagScheme3/foo": true`) have predetermined and reserved prefixes.  Additionally, the third tag was produced from a valueless, user-defined tag scheme, so the provider provides `true` as its default value.

The last two tags illustrate examples from two different, provider-defined tag schemes, and since all provider-defined tag schemes require a prefix, the provider has prepended prefixes (`providerDefinedTagScheme1/`, `providerDefinedTagScheme2/`) to each tag.

```json
    {
        "foo": "bar",
        "userDefinedTagScheme2/foo": "bar",
        "userDefinedTagScheme3/foo": true,
        "providerDefinedTagScheme1/foo": "bar",
        "providerDefinedTagScheme2/foo": "bar"

>         "baz": true,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        "baz": true,
```

## Provider-Defined vs. User-Defined Tags

> This example illustrates various tags produced from multiple user-defined and provider-defined tag schemes.  The first three tags illustrate examples from three different, user-defined tag schemes, and the provider has predetermined that 1 user-defined tag scheme (i.e. `"foo": "bar"`) does not have a prepended prefix, but the two (i.e. `"userDefinedTagScheme2/foo": "bar"`, `"userDefinedTagScheme3/foo": true`) have predetermined and reserved prefixes.  Additionally, the third tag was produced from a valueless, user-defined tag scheme, so the provider provides `true` as its default value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example illustrates various tags produced from multiple user-defined and provider-defined tag schemes.  The first three tags illustrate examples from three different, user-defined tag schemes. The provider predetermined that 1 user-defined tag scheme (i.e. `"foo": "bar"`) does not have a prepended prefix, but the remaining two user-defined tag schemes (i.e. `"userDefinedTagScheme2/foo": "bar"`, `"userDefinedTagScheme3/foo": true`) do have predefined and reserved prefixes specified by the provider.  Additionally, the third tag was produced from a valueless, user-defined tag scheme, so the provider also applies `true` as its default value.
```
